% $Revision: 1.7 $
%
% Simulink Tips
% These appear in the library browser when it launches
% All lines beginning with a '%' are comments
% Add more tips below.  One tip per line
% The tip scanner will stop when it encounters a blank line or 
% the end of file.
%
Press Esc to go up one level of the hierarchy (works for Stateflow too).
Double click on any block to see its Block Parameters Dialog.
Push in the 'push pin' to pin the Library Browser on top of all your windows.
Drag blocks from the Library Browser into your models.  To search, enter part of the name and press Find
Press F3 to search for the next block.
Use the View menu in the Library Browser to change the size of the icons in the preview pane.
Create a connection from a line by right clicking on the line and dragging.
Make a copy of a block in a diagram by right clicking and dragging.
Disconnect and move a block by clicking both mouse buttons (or middle button on UNIX) and dragging.
Disconnect and reroute a line by clicking on its destination port and dragging.
To create an annotation, just click on the diagram and start typing.
Right click on the background canvas of your model to access model-wide properties and actions.
Drop a block with a single inport and outport onto a line and the block will be connected into the line.
Holding the shift key down while moving a block will disconnect it from any wires connected to it.
You can drag blocks from the Library Browser preview pane into your models.
To search for a block in the Library Browser, enter part of the name in the Find field on the toolbar and click on Find.
Right-click on a block in the Library Browser and insert it automatically from the context menu.
You can get help on a block from either the block's context menu (right-click) or from the Help menu.
Use the arrow keys to make fine adjustments to the position of the selected block(s).
Create an auto-routed connection between two blocks by selecting the source block and left clicking on the destination block while holding down the Ctrl key.
Select a set of blocks and then left click on a different block while holding down the Ctrl key to create auto-routed connections between them.
